#  MCB³ (Modeling of Clogging by Boulders of Barriers and Bridges)
Large boulders can jam in constrictions, both for natural geological features (e.g. canyons) and man-made structures (e.g. slit-dams, bridges). Boulder jamming occurs stochastically, and partially governs the outflow rate of geophysical material. Explicit hydro-mechanical models of flows and boulders are unsuitable for studying this stochasticity given their prohibitive computational demands.

This code, written in the R language, is an extension of the Cheekye model (see https://github.com/GuillaumePitonInrae/CheekyeDebrisFlowBarrier). It applies expert estimates of a multi-phase flows upstream of several constrictions to a simple model of fluid and boulders interacting with these cascading constrictions. Each constriction can comprise multiple arbitrarily-sized and arbitrarily-placed sub-openings. The model uses a simple statistical method to stochastically compute the presence of boulders that might obstruct the opening(s) and later propagate them to the next contrictions with various hypotheses. The program then gives simple descriptions of flow characteristics near the constrictions, including the flow level over time, and the outlet discharge rate and volume. The model runs quickly (5-30 s per run), allowing uncertainty propagation analyses of interactions between flows, boulders and constrictions.  Its use and the scientific descriptions of the equations used can be found in:
-Shirra H. 2024. Modeling Jamming Caused by Debris Flows Through a Series of Cascading Structures, Msc Thesis, Univ. Grenobles Alpes, Grenobe-INP, ENSE³: Grenoble, France. 61p.  https://hal.inrae.fr/hal-04670924v1 
-Piton G. 2024. Prise en compte des blocs rocheux et du tri granulométrique pour une analyse plus réaliste des risques torrentiels. presented at the Fachtagung Wildbäche 2024: Modellierung von Wildbachprozessen. Rapperswil-Jona (CH). 41–47 pp. 29 October. DOI: https://10.55419/wsl:37773
-Misset, C. & Piton, G. (2024) MCB3 : Modélisation simplifiée des obstructions d'ouvrages soumis à des laves torrentielles - Extension à plusieurs ouvrages et mise à disposition d’un interface utilisateur en ligne. [Rapport de recherche] ONF-RTM & INRAE - IGE, 43p. https://hal.inrae.fr/hal-04692546


The code can be run locally using R or online at https://platrisk.ige.inrae.fr. The model input paramters can be provided either through text files stored in \01Data or through the params.json file (which can be manually modified or downloaded from https://platrisk.ige.inrae.fr). Four examples of .json files are provided whose content can be copied in params.json to run the model in normal or possibilistic mode and with a few (3) or many (25) simulations which result in varied graphical outputs.
